= _*Crux*_ Artifacts and Projects=

_*Crux*_ distribution includes a set of jar files:
  # crux-core.jar - The core of _*Crux*_ framework.
  # crux-compiler.jar - The _*Crux*_ compiler tool and some ant tasks to call the compiler.
  # crux-gwt-widgets.jar - A set of factories to integrate all GWT widgets with _*Crux*_.
  # crux-html-tags.jar - A legacy file to keep compatibility with _*Crux*_ 2.1.0 version.
  # crux-html-tags-compile-task.jar - A legacy file to keep compatibility with _*Crux*_ 2.1.0 version.
  # crux-modules.jar - A _*Crux*_ extension to support the module layout for projects.
  # cruxModulesAdmin.module.jar - A _*Crux*_ module that provides administration functions on applications modules.
  # crux-module-compiler.jar - A _*Crux*_ compiler extension to support projects with module layout.
  # crux-scannotation.jar - A modified version of the library scannotation.
  # crux-themes.jar - The standard css to all _*Crux*_ widgets.
  # crux-widgets.jar - The _*Crux*_ widget library.
  
Each of those files has its own eclipse project and is located on Crux [http://code.google.com/p/crux-framework/source/checkout repository]:
  # /Crux
  # /CruxCompiler
  # /CruxGWTWidgets
  # /CruxHtmlTags
  # /CruxHtmlTagsCompileTasks
  # /CruxModules
  # /CruxModulesAdmin
  # /CruxModulesCompiler
  # /CruxScannotation
  # /CruxThemes
  # /CruxWidgets
  
In addition of those projects, We have two projects that you need to download to build the _*Crux*_ distribution:
  # /CruxRelease - This project contains the ProjectGenerator and the ant build file needed to create the distribution file.
  # /CruxLibs - This project is a kind of jar repository. It contains the ant file used to download the dependencies required by all other projects and to distribute those files between the projects.
 
= Building _*Crux*_ Projects=
  
To build _*Crux*_ you need:
  # A JDK 1.5+ (Tested with sun JDK 1.5 and 1.6 and openJDK 1.6) 
  # Eclipse IDE (Tested with 3.5 on Linux and Windows)

After meet the previous requirements, you must:

  # Checkout the projects from _*Crux*_ [http://code.google.com/p/crux-framework/source/checkout repository];
  # Run the ant build file /CruxLibs/build/build.xml, calling the taks {{{<download-dependencies>}}};
  # Run the ant build file /CruxLibs/build/build.xml, calling the taks {{{<distribute>}}};
  # Refresh all other _*Crux*_ projects and call the ant build file /{{{<CRUX_PROJECT>}}}/build/build.xml, calling the task {{{<export>}}} on each _*Crux*_ project;
  # Run the ant build file /CruxLibs/build/build.xml, calling the taks {{{<distribute>}}} again, to update the /CruxRelease with all {{{crux*.jar}}}, generated in previous step ;

The {{{<export>}}} ant task, compiles the project, generate a jar file and export this jar to /CruxLibs project, to be used by /CruxRelease, when generate the final distribution file.

To generate the final distribution file, just run the ant build file /CruxRelease/build/build.xml, calling the task {{{<dist>}}};
