=Overview=

*Q: Why is it called _Crux_?*

A: _*Crux*_ is the hardest point in a climbing. One of the authors (Thiago) is a climber (at least he tries :) )... 

==_*Crux*_ Design==
*Q: Why create widgets declaratively inside the HTML page?*

A: The goal of the _*Crux*_ design is avoid that you need to write any other artifact in adition of your page.
We consider that XML files with component information (like you have in JSF and other frameworks) turn the development process harder than it need to be. 

Even the GWT model (that is similar to java swing) is harder to code than _*Crux*_ model that keep all the visual part of the interface in the same file and can be understood (and writen) much easier than lot of java code.  

Of course, the GWT programmatic mechanism to create widgets is more powerfull. It allows that widgets be created at runtime, depending on some user action. And _*Crux*_ supports that you work mixing the two strategies. We are glad that GWT works how it is. It allows _Crux_ to create the widgets programmatically, based on a parser on the current page document. 

*Q: Why _Crux_ uses {{{<span>}}} and not other tags like {{{<div>}}} or even custom tags (like {{{<grid>}}} or something similar) in host pages to declare widgets? And why does it put an `_` before all attributes and events names?*

A: 
The {{{<span>}}} tags does not affect the page render as much as {{{<div>}}} does. It will not be a problem in client browser, because that element are removed and changed by the widget element, but could be a problem for developers that are open the page to build the layout. The {{{_}}} character is used to avoid browsers to try interpret the attributes (If {{{onclick}}} was used in place of {{{_onclick}}}, browser would try to create an event listener for click events).

We can not use custom tags like {{{grid}}} at client side because HTML has a closed set of tags and any other tag is ignored in DOM. To solve this issue, we create a plugin (HtmlTags) that allows programmers to write XML with custom tags that are translated to HTML tags.

*Q: How _Crux_ checks if the application is under a development environment?*

A: To find out if your application is running under a development environment, _*Crux*_ checks for this two conditions. If one of them is true, it assumes a development environment:
  # Your application server was started by GWT HostedMode class.
  # Your application server is running in debug mode.



==Performance==
*Q: How fast _*Crux*_ declarative approach can be compared with default GWT approach (programmatic)?*

*Q: How much can _*Crux*_ increase the final javascript size? And the host page size?*

*Q: Using _*Crux*_, usually I write strings that contains the name of my controller and the method name that I want to call (in pages). GWT does not support reflection for performance reasons. Does _*Crux*_ approach break this GWT design to emulate reflection? If not, how _*Crux*_ make these types of calls without use reflection?*

*Q: About server side code? _*Crux*_ add any overhead?*




